---
layout: post
title:  "A New Path"
date:   2018-01-01 06:51:18 -0500
categories: impermanence
---

Just months before my marriage ended, I had ticked off an item on my bucket
list. I had loaded the kids in an RV and driven cross country, from Louisville, KY all the way to the
Pacific Ocean and back.  It was epic, with stops at Yellowstone, Grand Teton,
Olympic National Park, and more. My wife and I survived 2 months in a 23 foot RV
with 3 kids, I thought we were bullet proof.

Barely 2 months later, she decides to end the marriage of 14 years. I was
blindsided.  Just 2 years before we had moved to Louisville, I worked from
home, had no friends, my whole life was my wife and my kids.

Initially I leaned on my Christian faith, but even that was unsteady and
fractured. After telling me for 14 years that divorce was not an option,
suddenly she's telling me that she has justification from God to divorce me.
Yet I'm believing that God was telling me something different.  How can two
people hear two different things from the same God? 

After some marriage counseling, I figured out that her reality is radically
different from my own, right down to things we did and said in the past. How can we have
such firm beliefs in two radically different realities and events? I literally
thought I was going crazy and even began to question my own memory and sanity.

Everything was a blur for about 9 months as I flailed about trying to make
sense of it all. As I struggled in a yo-yo cycle of anxiety and depression, I
read tons of books, both secular and Christian. I tried real hard to find
meaning in eveything that was happening.

One idea that kept standing out in different forms in the books and the therapy
sessions was this idea of mindfulness. It was presented in hundreds of
different ways: prayer, meditation, 'being with' my emotions, being still. I
quickly figured out that in the darkest moments of depression, just simply
whispering to myself "I'm sad" made me feel a tiny bit better. When I was
having a panic attack, just being still and whispering to myself "I'm scared",
was soothing. I was very curious about this, being an engineer, I wanted to
explore it more.

I had nothing left, no faith, no religion, no life partner, my kids were the
almost the
only thing that gave me purpose to continue living. I had read a book title "The Art of
Possibility" a few years before, and although it's message didn't sink in fully
until later, it did open my mind to all the possibility that lay before me.
Here I was, with barely nothing left, so it seemed, but I had this weak glimpse
of all the possibility that this event had opened up for me.  And it is here,
that I found a new path to take.
